We're now going to take a look at a second option for adding in this moderation service and adding in
some events to support it.
So here's option number two.
Option number two is going to be very similar to option number one with very one very small difference.
As a matter of fact, option number two is probably what you thought option number one was going to
be.
Okay, so let's walk through it.
We're still going to have a user submit a comment to the current service.
We are still going to have the comment service emit an event of something like comment created.
The event plus is still going to send that event off to the moderation service.
But now we're going to also have it go off to the query service and actually be processed by the query
service.
So this is similar to what is going on inside of our application right now without adding in this moderation
feature.
As soon as the query service CS come and created, we're going to have the query service persist some
information about that comment and critically it's also going to have a default status of something
like pending.
The query service is going to instantly know about this comment, even if it takes some amount of time
for the moderation service to process and actually moderate the given comment.
So now we can imagine that if a user goes over to our application and they enter in a comment right
here and hit submit, we're going to instantly emit comment created and that event will instantly go
over to the query service and the query service will have this record of the comment.
So as soon as the user refreshes the page in theory, they will see that comment appear right away.
And because we know its status is pending, we can show a nice little kind of picture of that thing,
something like this right here, or a nice little something note that says this comment is awaiting
moderation.
Now, of course, we still want to go ahead and moderate this comment.
So the comment created is still going to go to moderation service.
And at some point in time in the future, maybe seconds, months, who knows what?
It will still continue to even emit an event of something like comment moderated.
This will go over to the query service.
The query service will see it and update the status of that given comment to, approved or rejected
or whatever it needs to be.
So that's option number two.
This definitely solves the issue of a user submitting a comment and not immediately seeing it up here
on the screen.
But it does also kind of persist an issue that we did not discuss about option number one.
It's an issue that's present in option number one and option number two as well.
So let me tell you about what the issue is that is common with one and two.
I want you to really think about the query service right now and what its job is.
That query service is all about presentation logic.
As a matter of fact, its name is query service.
It's about making a query or storing some data and serving that data up very quickly to users.
So right now, it's really joining just two resources, just the post and comments.
But at some point in time, the future, we could totally imagine that there might be other resources
that it joins together as well, such as maybe upvotes, downvotes, images, who knows what else.
This query service might take many different resources and jam them all together.
And that's what this query service is really all about.
So quick question for you.
Does it make sense for this presentation service to understand how to process this very precise update
to a comment like a common moderated event?
Does it make sense for the query service to understand how to process an event like this?
Well, right now it's kind of easy to say yes, because the comment moderated event really just means
go and find this comment and update its status to approved or rejected or whatever else.
So processing this event very simple and straightforward in nature, it's one line of code, more or
less.
What I want you to think about a real world commenting system.
Think about all of the different ways in which a real world commenting system or a real world comment
might be able to be updated.
A real world comment, you might be able to moderate it, you might be able to upload it to downvote
it, you might be able to promote it.
So maybe a moderator or someone in charge of a website can say, this is a really high quality comment.
I want to boost it up towards the top of all the comments.
You might be able to make a comment anonymous.
You might be able to flag it as searchable.
You might be able to market as an advertised comment, like a comment that someone paid money to promote
in some way.
Each of these different precise updates to a comment has some very precise business logic associated
with it to update the definition of that comment.
So if we continue down this line of saying that our.
Where his service is going to be able to process this comment moderated event.
We're essentially saying that somewhere down the line we might end up in a scenario like this one right
here where the query service needs to understand how to handle this multitude of different possible
updates that can be made to a comment.
And you can easily imagine that if there were other services like our query service, maybe something
to process weekly updates for popular blog posts, or maybe something that functions as a recommendation
service.
And if those had to store the idea of what a comment is as well, in theory, they might also have to
handle these events.
And so we start to get into this scenario where every possible way of changing a comment has to be handled
by a ton of different services.
And as you can imagine, yeah, this is not even remotely what we want.
So even though this all works and this is a more or less viable approach for our current application
as it stands right now, I'm going to suggest that maybe it's not the best solution.
So we're going to take one more pause, come back to the next video and discuss option number three.